[Transcript missing]
We're going to talk to you
about some cool tips and tricks.
Sort of think of this as the
roar for sticking around so
late on a Friday evening.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to talk about some things that
you could do which would put cool
features in your applications and
mimic some of the things that you've
seen our own applications doing.
And these topics will range from
beginner level topics that will
be easy for everyone to understand
to some more advanced topics.
And don't worry, there's going to be
lots of code and demos,
but all the source code will be
available online for download.
I don't know if it's there right now,
but it should be there sometime today.
Okay,
so the way we're going to run things
today is you guys get to ask the
questions and we're going to answer them.
Unfortunately,
Jason gave me a list of questions
right before I came up on
stage a couple minutes ago,
and I punched in all the slides
and all of the demos so that we can
just flow through nice and smoothly
without having to go out to the crowd.
So the first question
you guys had for us was,
well I've seen iChat, Safari,
Address Book, all these applications with
these cool roll-over effects.
So just to explain what
the roll-over effect is,
we've got the mouse moving back
and forth and you see it represents
that I have some clickable area.
Okay, so the idea for doing a
roll-over is really quite simple.
What we're going to
do is track the mouse.
We're going to need to know when
it enters and exits a region.
And once it does that,
we're going to set up some state
that lets us know that either
we want to draw a roll-over or
we're done drawing the roll-over.
Okay, so how do we track the mouse?
Well, you could imagine that we
continually monitor where the
mouse's position is at every instant,
every time it moves.
But that seems a little, well,
a little unnecessary
and very inefficient.
So, all we really need to do in most
situations is know when the mouse enters
an area and when it exits an area.
If we had to,
we really could track the mouse at
every instant in every location,
but we don't need to for this.
Let's just be nice and
efficient about it.
We're going to use NSView's
API to add a tracking rectangle.
And when we do this,
one of the parameters we
can specify is the owner.
And the owner gets notified with
"mouse entered" and "mouse exited"
whenever the mouse enters a
region and when it exits a region.
Okay, so once it enters a region,
we want to set up our drawing states
that we know we want to draw a roll-over.
And we're going to use NSBezierPath
to help us draw the roll-over
when we have our state set.
And what we're going to do
is use this API to append
There's supposed to be a little image
there that shows you what we're doing,
but there we go.
We're going to append
two caps at the end,
two half-circular arcs,
and when we're done,
we're going to use its
API to close the path,
close it up nicely, and when we draw it,
we're going to use its API to fill.
And we're going to draw a filled
region created using this Bezier path.
So if we could go to demo one, please.
Okay, so I'm going to start out first
by showing you what we get
when we run the application.
See, we have some other fans out there.
When we move over a region,
We get a nice little highlight
effect with the Bezier path.
Okay, so let's see how we did that.
We start by bringing up our nib
to see how things are configured.
And we have a number
of text fields in here.
And the important thing about these text
fields that I wanted to point out is
that it's called a roll-over text field.
And if we look at the classes,
we see that roll-over text field
is a subclass of NSTextField.
Alright, so we look at the code
in rollover text field.
We have two instance variables.
One is a rollover path.
So whenever we enter a region,
we're going to set up a rollover path.
When we have a rollover path,
that's our cue that we
want to draw a rollover.
And we have this rollover
tracking rect tag.
This is a value that's returned
from the add tracking rect API,
and it's what we're going to use to
reference that tracking rectangle if we
need to remove it or change its position.
So bring up the implementation file.
And we start out,
we have a number of routines which
are just utility nicety routines
that we're going to use when we
manage our tracking rectangle.
We've got something to clear
the current tracking rectangle,
and then we've got one to reset
the current tracking rectangle.
And you notice the first thing it
does is clear the tracking rectangle,
and then put it at a new position.
And we only do this when
we're not in live resize.
There's no point in doing it
during live resize because the
mouse is over the girl box.
It's not over your control.
So we're going to do that at
the end of live resize and be a
little more performance intensive.
Okay,
now we've got a number of places where
we insert calls to these routines which
will either clear the tracking rectangle
or reset it at the appropriate times.
So, for instance,
if the frame origin of our view moves,
well, that's a good time to reset
the tracking rectangle.
When our frame size changes,
we'll do it also.
If we, for some reason,
get moved into a new window, well,
clear the tracking rectangle
information for the old window.
We're about to move into a new one.
And finally,
when we move into a new window, well,
let's set up a tracking
rectangle in that new window.
And again,
we skipped setting up any tracking
rectangle during live resize.
So when live resize is over,
let's set it up then.
Okay, so that should be all the
points that we need to catch.
And now that we have a tracking
rectangle as the owner,
we're going to get a callback
when the mouse enters.
When the mouse enters,
we will create a Bezier path,
and we're going to
append one half arc on,
I guess, the left side first.
Not sure.
Yep, it's on the left side first.
And then we're going to append
another half arc on the right side,
and finally, close the path.
And we get just that diagram
that I had showed you.
And since, you know, Bezier path can tell
us what its bounds is,
well, let's just dirty the
bounds of the Bezier path.
That's what really needs to be updated.
And finally, when the mouse exits,
we're going to say that we need to
re-display in that bounds again,
and we're going to get
rid of the Bezier path.
And finally, to draw the Bezier path,
if we have a roll-over path,
we want to draw it.
And we're going to set the color that
we're going to fill the Bezier path with,
a nice gray color.
And let's go ahead and change
the text color to white so that
it can be more easily seen on
top of the roll-over effect.
And then we're just going to
let NSTextField do its thing.
It knows how to draw the text.
So we draw the roll-over
in the background,
and then we let it draw the text on top.
And that's it.
So if we could go back to the slides,
please.
Okay,
so we've answered the first question.
Now, the second question that I've heard
was that you've seen this cool little
raised editing effect in address book.
When there's a selected area,
it looks like it's, you know,
in an editor,
which has this nice shadow around it.
How can I do that?
Well, the idea is actually really
pretty simple once you have a key
bit of insight on how to do it.
And what we're going to do is track
the text selection and draw this raised
editor around where the selection is.
And the key bit of insight is that, well,
first of all,
we have this new class called
NSShadow in Panther that we're
going to take advantage of.
And the second bit is,
what we're going to do is create an
image which has a hole punched out of the
middle and a shadow around the outsides.
And because there's a hole
punched in the middle,
we can just have NSTextView do
its normal drawing,
and then we draw the image
over top of the text.
And because there's a hole in the middle,
you get to see the text through it.
So this is actually just going
to be a subclass of NSTextView.
Okay, so I mentioned NSShadow
is a new class in Panther.
It has API which allows you
to configure the shadow,
configure things about it like
the offset and the blur radius.
And it has API which lets you
set it as something that's used
as the current drawing style.
Just like you can use an NSColor
or an NSFont and tell it to set as
part of the current drawing style,
you can do the same - you can use it -
[Transcript missing]
All right, let's run this and see
what we're going to get.
So this is a mock-up of something
that you might see in Address Book,
and it behaves much like Address Book.
When I click, I get a raised editor.
If I type,
the raised editor follows the selection.
And pretty much everything
works sort of like I expect.
And just for fun,
we know how to do roll-overs now,
so let's throw those in.
We'll take a quick look at the nib again.
We just have one special class in there,
and it's called Raised Editing TextView,
and it's a subclass of NSTextView.
We'll go to the code.
And we have here four classes which
are all part of the implementation
of this raised text view.
We're going to focus on one of
those in particular right now,
but again, like I said,
you can download the code and
look what the rest of it does.
But I'll just give a quick overview.
We have one file which has a category
that defines all the methods dealing
with handling the text selection,
and making text selection in that
example works just like you'd expect
it to work if it was address book.
and then we have a small file that
handles the roll-over effects,
and then a file which deals with text
attributes and makes those easier
to use in the rest of our code.
And if you want to find out more
about what text attributes are,
A text view and its text storage
deal in attributed text and
give you the ability to attach
attributes to certain ranges of text.
And that's sort of what
that class deals with.
I'd suggest going to Doug Davidson's
talk at 5 o'clock today if you
want to find out more about that.
And finally,
we get to the part that deals with
drawing that raised shadow look.
And we start out,
we have in our Awake From Nib,
we do a little UI setup so it fills the
text view with some dummy information.
And then we have a routine
called Shadow Image Around Path.
It takes a Bezier path,
which specifies the boundary of
where we want the shadow to be.
And what we're going to do is,
given that Bezier path,
figure out how big the image should be.
And the image is going to
need to be a little bit bigger
than the Bezier path's bounds,
because it needs some offsets left,
right, top,
and bottom to accommodate for the shadow.
So what we do is we create an image,
and we're going to do something special.
We're going to cache it
separately because we know
we're resizing this image a lot.
We don't want it to be cached in the
same cache window as all the other ones.
I'd suggest reading up on the
documentation on the web to
find out more about why we
might do this and what it means.
We set the image to be flipped because,
well, we're dealing with drawing
text and typically flipping the
coordinates makes that easier.
So what this means is the
origin will be at the top left
instead of the bottom left.
And finally, we lock focus on the image.
And what that does is tell the
drawing system that our current
drawing context is that image.
All the drawings are going
to go into that image.
We do a little translation so
that we draw to the right spot.
And finally,
if we're the first responder,
we want to have the raised look.
And what we're going to do is save
away the graphic state so that shadows
only apply to what we're about to do.
We create a shadow and
give it some parameters.
And finally,
we set the shadow and set a color
so that when we fill the path,
we actually fill something.
And it'll turn out that it doesn't
matter what color we set that path to,
because we're about to
erase it in a little bit.
And you'll see what I'm
talking about there.
So we set the shadow,
and then we fill with the path.
So we fill in a region,
in a rectangular region,
and outside of that
region that we filled in,
it's going to get some shadow.
And finally,
we're done drawing with shadows,
so let's restore the graphics state.
And now let's knock a
hole out of the middle,
because we're going to need to
be able to see through that image
to the text that's behind it.
And what we do is we clip to the path,
so we make sure that only drawing
goes into that area inside of the
path that we originally passed.
We set the color to be clear color,
and then we fill the entire bounds.
Setting it to clear color basically
knocks a hole out of the middle,
so it doesn't matter what we set that
color to be before that white color,
because we've knocked
a hole in the middle.
And finally, we set sort of a nice light
gray color and draw a border
around where the shadow is,
just to make it stand
out a little bit better.
All right, and then we return the image.
And finally, we have a routine which
draws the raised editor.
What it's going to do is find out
where the currently edited range is.
And if there's a currently
edited selection,
and TextView deals in glyphs,
not characters.
Again,
I would go to Doug Davidson's talk if
you want to find out more about glyphs
and characters and things like that.
If we have an area that we want
to draw the raised editor in,
what we're going to do is talk
to the layout manager and find
out where those glyphs live,
so we get a rectangle back.
And then we're going to inset - well,
actually,
we're going to outset it - outset
that rectangle just a little bit
so there's some separation between
the selection and where the raised
editor and the shadows start.
And given that,
we're going to create a Bezier path
with the rectangle that contains the
edited glyphs and pass that off to our
helper routine to create a shadow image.
We get the shadow image back and
we composite it to the screen.
And finally, all we did was override
DrawRect in NSTextView.
We let TextView do its thing
because it knows what to do.
It knows how to draw text best.
And afterwards, well,
we draw a roll-over if we have one.
And...roll-overs are cool.
And then we draw the raised editor.
And that's it, because, you know,
we draw that image,
and you're able to see through the
image and to the text behind it.
Okay, if we go back to the slides,
please.
So that ends my portion of the talk.
I'm going to invite up on stage our
next speaker who's going to bring back
an old friend that some of you might
have been familiar with if you've
been to WWDC the last couple of years.
She's going to enhance Dot View and
try to make it the best app ever.
Tina?
Thank you very much, Chuck.
Once again, my name is Tina Huang,
and I work with Chuck on
the Cocoa frameworks.
So, many of you are probably familiar
with two of our apps on the system,
Mail and iChat.
And you may be thinking, "Wow,
how do they do so many great things
with their Dock icons?" For instance,
you'll notice here that Mail puts the
number of unread messages you have
on the upper right side of the icon,
and when you minimize one
of your iChat buddy windows,
chat windows,
you have a big picture of your
buddy's icon in there rather than a
mini version of the entire window.
Well, there's two things going on here.
The first is Mail uses something
called Dock icon badging.
And for iChat,
they actually do something called
your - they set the Docs mini window.
And so,
We want to make
Dot View the best app ever.
So,
notice here that Dot View traditionally
has just an icon that's this big red dot,
and for the mini window,
it just miniaturizes the
window of the entire Dot View.
So notice here that we're going to have
a colored badge on the dot view icon to
represent what color your current dot is.
And we're also going to change the
menu window to just be a version of
the colored dot that's in your window.
So first,
let's talk about Dock icon badging.
It's pretty simple.
The first thing you want to
do is you want to grab the
original icon of your Dock,
of your application.
So to do this,
you're going to ask NSBundle to
give you the application's main
bundle and then get the path for
the application from that bundle.
Once you have the application,
you can go to NSWorkspace and get
the application's icon for the Dock,
for the application icon.
Then you want to apply
that badge to the image.
Then you want to set that new
image to be your new Dock icon.
And there's one last thing.
You have to reset the icon back to this
original icon before app termination.
And the reason being is, you know,
you can imagine a case where an app
might want to leave that changed,
modified icon as the application.
But in this case, we don't.
So we're going to register for
the NSApplicationWillTerminate
notification and set that icon
back before the application.
So you can see that the
application is now being set.
And then you can see that the
So you can see that the
application is now being set.
And then you can see that the
And then you can see that
the application is now being
So first, the code here that we're going
to change is pretty simple.
In the main dot view,
We have this method that
updates the application badge.
And what you'll see here is,
the first thing we do is we grab
the unmodified applications image.
And we do a bunch of computations
to determine where we want
to draw that new badge.
So, here it is.
We draw the original image.
We add the badge,
which in this case is just a
rectangle in the color of the dot.
Then we call this NSApplication
method "SetApplicationIconImage"
to set the image to be the new
image with the badge applied.
And that's basically it,
except for in order to have the
icon reset to its original state
when the application terminates,
we want to register for the app
will terminate notification.
And here it is.
When we terminate,
we grab the original application icon and
reset that to be your application's icon.
And here we're going to run it for you.
So here's DotView in NOLS Glory.
And you can resize it.
And notice here, you have just a red dot.
I'll make this bigger for you.
So here, we just have the main dot,
but now we have this colored badge.
So if we change the color of the dot,
you'll notice here that there's
now a badge applied to it.
And that's it.
May I go back to slides, please?
So now let's talk about that -
how we do the Dock mini window.
So the first thing is we want
to actually compute the image
for the mini window lazily.
So in order to do this,
we're going to first register for the
NSWindowDidMiniaturize notification.
And when we get that notification,
that's when we're going to compute
the image for the mini window.
You don't want to be receiving
these notifications for all
the windows in your app.
So in order to make sure that
we only have the main window
receive these notifications,
we're going to look at two
NSVUE delegate methods.
And so when you receive the NSView,
didMoveToWindow delegate method,
you know that you are
now the main window.
And at this point,
you will register for the
didMiniaturize notification.
When you receive the NSView,
View will move to window,
delegate method.
That means you're about to switch
out of your window and that's no
longer going to be your main window.
And at this point you
want to unregister for the
NSWindowDidMinitrized notification.
So, once you get this notification,
you're going to want to create
the new mini window image and
then set that to be your NSWindow,
your Windows mini window.
And to do this, use NSWindow's set mini
window image method.
So, can I switch back to demo, please?
So first we'll take a look at the code.
So again, we first take a look at the
viewDidMoveToWindowDelegate method.
And when we receive this,
we're going to register for the
NSWindowDidMinitrized notification.
When you're about to
move out of the window,
then you're going to remove
yourself from that notification.
And here's where the main crux
of the mini window occurs.
Once we receive that notification,
prepare mini window gets called and
first we want to compute that new image.
So we're going to create the image and
draw the dot with the proper color set.
And that's going to be
a new mini window image.
And then, here it is.
You take the main window and
you set the mini window image
to be the newly computed image.
And just for fun,
we're going to actually have it
tell you the radius for the title.
And so we're going to see that run here.
So here we go.
When you change size and
the color of your dot,
and then
We're going to miniaturize it.
Notice here now we just have the
dot as a mini window and it tells
you that the radius here is 86.6.
Back to slides, please.
And so you may now think, wow,
we have dot view with
all this great stuff,
like this great descriptive Doc icons.
But what I really want is,
rather than have the slider
and the color well at the
bottom of your dot view window,
wouldn't it be great if it had an
animating inspector like Finders?
Most of you have probably
seen this in Finder,
and you know, it's pretty neat.
You have these disclosure triangles,
so you have like the main information.
You click on the disclosure triangle,
more detailed information occurs.
So how do you do that?
Well, it's pretty simple.
You have your three main views that are
your general views of your inspector.
And then each one of these views
will have an associated detailed
view to go along with it.
The main difficulty here is that
you want to temporarily adjust the
resizing behavior of each of the
views during the window animation,
and then animate the window.
So, let's take a look at
that resizing behavior.
Most of you are probably used to
doing this in Interface Builder.
What you have here is you set
a spring that indicates which
part of your view is variable.
So in this case, if you set the spring of
the top part of your view,
that means you're going to be
pinned to the bottom of your window.
And most of you who are familiar
with Interface Builder are
probably used to doing this.
We're going to show you how you can
do the same behavior programmatically.
So we have this method on
NSView called setAutoResizingMask.
And here,
rather than have the springs indicate
the variable parts of your view,
we're going to have the mask
indicate the same parts.
And so here you'll notice
you have the NSMaxYMargin,
the MinYMargin,
and the heightSizableMask.
And so once again,
if you want your view to
be pinned to the bottom,
you would set your auto resizing
mask to be NSMaxYMargin.
So, for your inspector,
what you're going to want to do is,
for each view above your expanding view,
you're going to want to set the min-y
margin as your auto resizing mask.
For everything below that expanding view,
you're going to want to
set the max-y margin.
And for the expanding view itself,
you'll want to make the height sizable.
And once again, remember,
if you want your window to be resizable,
make sure that you set them
back to their original states,
or else funny things will happen
when you try to resize your window.
So let's go back to demo.
So first we're going to
take a look at the code.
And so all the main code here occurs
during this toggle detail visible.
And this is going to occur every time
you hit that disclosure triangle.
So the first thing that we do is we
use this new setHidden API available
in NetEaseView that's new to Panther.
And basically, if you're now toggling
your view to be visible,
you want to make sure you make that
view visible before you animate so
that you're not animating into nothing.
Then you're going to want to
order all your disclosure views
to the proper Y coordinate.
And we have some code that does that.
And here's that auto-resizing
code we're talking about.
So for everything above and
below the expanding views,
you're going to want to set the
auto-resizing mask to the proper mask,
as we talked about
And for the view that's
actually expanding,
we're going to set the auto-resizing
mass to NSViewHeightSizable.
And finally, you're going to resize the
window using the animation API.
So we have a set frame to display
and set animate to be yes.
And once again, if your view is no longer
- if you're now hiding your
Closing up the disclosure triangle,
you're going to want to set the
detailed view to be hidden so that
it's taken out of the keyboard
loop and a bunch of other things.
So, let's take a look at that.
So now we have this great
inspector for dot view.
And so we have a bunch
of things you can do.
Again,
you can change the size of your dot,
the color of your dot,
and we have a bunch of
great new features that,
surprisingly,
require no code to implement.
And that's it.
And notice here that the
disclosure triangles animate
and everything stays in place.
Back to slides, please.
And so, that's DotView for you.
New and improved.
So, to teach you some great tricks
that you can do with OpenGL View,
I'd now like to introduce Mr.
NSView himself, Troy Stephens.
Thank you very much, Tina.
Boy, that dot view just gets more
and more powerful every year.
I mean, I think we're revolutionizing
dot management,
am I right?
So, my topic today,
the slide says it all.
How can you take an OpenGL view
that you're doing some rendering
into and go full screen with it?
You've seen this in games.
Games take over the entire screen.
Keynote does this to
show your presentation.
It's doing it right now.
Here it is.
Here's our demo.
Full screen OpenGL.
How can you do this?
Well, there are of course a number
of different ways to connect
between the platform-independent
industry standard OpenGL API and
different windowing systems,
and even on Mac OS X.
I think one of the reasons it's the best
is we give you so many ways to connect.
We have GLUT, we have AGL,
which existed on Mac OS 9 and is
generally used by Carbon apps,
we have CGL, which supports AGL,
and then we have the
NSOpenGL layer in AppKit,
of course.
So, in this case,
we're going to focus on how
you would do this if you're
using the NSOpenGL classes,
NSOpenGL view, NSOpenGL context,
NSOpenGL pixel format to handle your
OpenGL windowing in your Cocoa app.
So we're going to do things a
little differently for this demo.
We're going to go to the
demo first and take a look,
just so we have a mental picture in mind
of what it is we're trying to accomplish.
Then we'll go to slides and we'll take
a look at what some of the concepts
are that are involved in doing this,
and then I promise we'll
go back to the code.
We'll take a look at the code.
at the code and how you actually do this.
So if we could go to demo one, please.
So here we've got an
OpenGL view in a window.
It does some simple GL rendering.
We've got a three-dimensional sphere
here with a texture map on it.
And you'll notice there's some
various... it supports mouse input.
We can grab with the mouse,
and if we move the mouse vertically,
we can rotate the sphere.
We can move the mouse horizontally
and change the direction
the sun is coming from.
There's some animation.
It's rotating.
There's also keyboard support.
If I hit the W key,
you'll have to take my word on this.
I am hitting the W key.
And it's toggling
wireframe rendering mode.
We can resize this.
So if we want to go to
full screen with this,
say, and take over the entire screen,
fill the entire screen area,
we just grab this thing down here.
And there you go!
Voila!
But seriously folks,
you want to be able to - what we're
really talking about here is - I want
to make this clear - not just filling
the entire screen with your OpenGL view,
you really want to
take over the hardware.
You want to take control of that
display so that you can do various
other things that can help to
improve your rendering performance.
You want to lock to your screen refresh.
So we've got a little method
that's wired up to this button,
and if we do that,
now we're in full screen mode.
We've still got a mouse pointer.
We could have hidden
that if we wanted to.
And you'll notice we still have mouse
response here and keyboard response.
and we can hit escape.
You of course always want to
give your users a way out,
right?
Because we're in full screen mode,
there's no quit menu
item here or anything,
so hit escape and we're back
to non-full screen mode.
And we can bang on this all
we want and go back and forth.
It's a pretty smooth transition.
I'm not trying to do anything
sophisticated like a gamma fade here,
but it just works.
I tried to keep the code fairly simple.
So,
This is, as I said,
more than just taking a view
and going full screen with it,
than filling the screen.
What we're actually doing is
we're rendering to a context.
We have what's called a
full screen OpenGL context,
and there's actually no view involved
when we go to full screen mode.
So this is going to take a
little refactoring of our code,
some re-architecting of our app
to really fully support this,
right?
And if we could go back to slides,
please.
What are some of the prerequisites?
This is a somewhat advanced technique,
so we've got a bunch
of stuff to go through.
But remember, the sample code, I believe,
is available now online,
so you can download it after this talk
and study it to your heart's content.
It'll give you a good baseline
to start with if you're trying to
implement this technique yourself.
You can start with something that works.
One of the things that we need
to do with NSOpenGL is start by
creating a separate NSOpenGL context.
So,
if you're using a single-screen context,
there's one that's
implicitly created for you,
or you may be explicitly creating
it in your NSOpenGL view.
So, we want a separate context to render
to when we go to full-screen mode.
We want to give it the same,
more or less,
pixel format attributes that we
gave to our non-windowed context.
Let's say we have some common
attributes that we're using.
We want 24 bits of color buffer,
we want a 16-bit depth buffer,
we want a double-buffered
context so we can page flip,
and we want to specify
that we'd like to have a
hardware-accelerated rendering context,
because we know we've got some
great hardware we can render with.
So when we create our
full-screen OpenGL context,
we want to use those attributes,
and we want to also specify the
full-screen pixel format attribute.
That's pretty straightforward.
We also want to specify a screen mask.
Remember, you could be running on
a multi-monitor system,
so you need to specify which screen
it is that you want to take over
and go into full-screen mode with.
And the mask itself, for example,
if you were on the main display,
you could simply pass this
simple expression here,
cgDisplayId to OpenGL display mask.
There's a mask macro for that.
If you look in cgDirectDisplay.h,
you will find, I believe, this API.
So let's just say we're
going to the main display.
We specify that for the mask.
We also need to do something special
in the non-full-screen context,
since we know that we want
to go full-screen with that.
This one's a little obscure,
but by specifying the no-recovery
attribute in the non-full-screen context,
what we're doing is we're telling
NSOpenGL that we want a context that
cannot fall back to a software renderer.
If we want our non-full-screen context
to be compatible with our full-screen
context for purposes of text-to-text,
then we want to specify that.
So we specify that for the mask.
We also need to specify that for the
non-full-screen context for purposes
of texture sharing and sharing display
lists and other such OpenGL objects.
We need them to -- we need cgl
to consider them compatible.
To do that,
we have to make our non-full-screen
context hardware only,
and that we do that using
the no-recovery attribute.
So another thing that we need to
do is we're going to sort of change
the model of our application.
Normally, you let AppKit do the driving.
AppKit runs your run loop.
AppKit hands you events.
It tells you when to draw, rec.
It tells you when to
correct in your view.
It tells you when you've got a
key down and that sort of thing.
But when we're in full-screen mode,
we're really taking over the system.
We're going to drive everything.
We're going to be in our own loop
for the whole time that we're in
full-screen mode until we exit,
driving the event loop and
processing our own events.
So in order to facilitate this,
what we're going to do is factor
code out of our NSOpenGLView subclass
and move it into some other common
objects so that we can reference
it both when we're in full screen
mode and when we're in windowed mode.
We're going to take all the
OpenGL initialization and drawing that
we normally do in our drawRect call
and move that into another object.
And also our input event handling.
We want to be able to handle the
same keyboard and mouse events,
whether we're in full
screen or non-full screen.
So to help illustrate exactly
what we're doing here,
we've got our OpenGL view to start with.
Normally it's got a drawRect method,
it's got a reshape method that
gets called whenever the view
is resized and needs to adjust
its GL viewport and so on.
We also get mouse down
and key down events.
So the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to take the rendering
and updating for changes in size,
move those into a scene object
- this is just an NS object,
this is your sort of data model
object - so we're going to move all
the rendering out into a separate
scene object that we define,
so that OpenGL view just
calls the scene to do that.
And then we're going to have a
controller object that handles
all of the keyboard events.
And we're just going to have
OpenGL view forward all these sort
of requests to delegate effectively
to these different objects.
And then main controller
has a go full screen method.
We're going to look
at that one in detail.
That's going to be the focus of
what's unique about this demo.
And that is the method, as I said,
we stay in that method for the entire
time that we are in full screen mode.
It takes over control and only
when we exit full screen mode
does it relinquish control.
That invocation is live for the
whole time we're in full screen mode.
And that's exactly what's
wired up to that button that
I clicked to go full screen.
So if you'll notice here,
we have a scene object.
This is our model.
So we have here, everybody with me,
model view controller.
It's Friday.
Okay, since I'm not planning
on quitting my day job,
we'll look at some API.
Just a quick overview of some of the API.
I know this is a lot of stuff,
but these are some of the
API that we will find particularly
useful in implementing this.
One thing we want to be able to
do is capture to the display,
talk to Quartz and say, "Hey,
we want to own this display so that
we can control it." One of the other
things that you may want to do is
actually change screen resolution.
Maybe you want to run in
800x600 or an even higher res
than the user is running in.
We don't do that for
simplicity in this demo,
but it's fairly easy to go
ahead and do that once you've
taken control of the display.
You can query Quartz and ask it,
"What are the different modes this
display supports?" and do that.
Of course, we're going to be creating
an NSOpenGL context.
The standard initializer for that,
init with format, share context.
Notice the share context,
that's what's going to enable us
to share texture objects with our,
in fact, the earth texture is
uploaded only once to OpenGL.
And when we go to full screen mode,
we just,
since we're specifying the non-full
screen context as a share context,
we just automatically get it.
We don't have to send it up there again.
Set full screen, of course,
a method on NSOpenGL context.
That's the main method you use to go
into full screen mode when you're ready.
And then we make,
we want to use make current context
to make that context current so
we can start drawing into it.
Another thing you're going to
want to do is potentially sync to
the refresh rate so that you can,
what this does is it
avoids tearing artifacts.
It's basically telling GL that
you want this context to swap
front and back buffers since we're
double buffered in sync with the
vertical retrace on your monitor.
This matters even on an LCD panel.
Even LCD panels,
people are surprised to discover,
have a concept of retrace.
We also are going to need in full
screen mode to flush our buffer each
time we're done drawing a frame.
We'll do that explicitly.
So that's where we swap the
back buffer to the front buffer.
And then when we want to
exit full screen mode,
we clear the current context.
We send a clear drawable message to the
context and that's how we get out of it.
And then we can let go of the full
screen context and be done with it.
So if we could go back
to the demo machine,
look at the source code
that implements this.
And we have a few different classes here.
As promised, we have a controller class.
Our controller has a
connection to the model.
This is our full screen context here.
It's just an OpenGL context
like any other.
We've got a connection out to our view.
The OpenGL view has a connection
to the scene object that
knows how to render the scene,
so it can delegate out to
the scene to draw itself.
And it has a connection
to the controller,
so it can send all the input
events to the controller.
So let's look at the
real interesting part,
going full screen.
That's in main controller.
It's fairly easy to see?
Okay, good.
So we'll go right down here
to the Go Fullscreen method.
This is what's wired up to that button.
This is where we go first when
we're entering fullscreen mode.
We have, first of all,
we create our list of
pixel format attributes.
You notice we have the
common attributes here.
These are the same,
you'll see if you look
at the source code,
as are specified for the
non-fullscreen context.
In addition, we've got the display mask.
We've got the fullscreen
attribute specified here.
I should say they're the same
common attributes with the exception
of the no recovery attribute.
That's in the
non-fullscreen context only.
So just to - this is a lot of stuff.
You can look at this at your leisure,
but just to quickly go through it,
we create the pixel format
with those attributes.
And just for debugging,
I'm printing out here the renderer ID,
which identifies uniquely
what card you're running on.
And you can see in the console
output when we run the app that
we can do that for diagnostics.
We see that - we end up seeing that
both the fullscreen and non-fullscreen
context have the same renderer ID.
They're talking to the same hardware.
And that's the whole point
of the no recovery attribute.
So we create our fullscreen context.
We're done with the pixel format.
We temporarily stop the animation timer
because instead of having a timer call us
back every time we want to switch frames,
what we do is we drive
the animation ourselves.
We just check the time interval
each time we go through the loop.
We're in this loop of checking for input.
Updating the simulation,
which in this case is just very quickly
advancing the globe to the next frame,
and then rendering,
and we just keep doing
that over and over again.
So we capture the display here.
Here I've just done capture all displays,
but you can be more specific than that.
You would want to do that
on a multi-monitor system.
But capture all displays is
fairly simple and universal.
Now we tell the context
to set fullscreen.
We make it current.
Here's where we set the swap interval.
This is a case in which we
have to drop down to see if we
can get it to the fullscreen.
We're saving the old swap interval
as a courtesy so we can set it back
again after we exit fullscreen mode.
We tell the scene to set
up for a new display size.
And then we enter our loop.
And the loop is fairly
simple in structure.
We're checking for and
processing input events.
It's the first thing we do
each time through the loop.
Notice what we're doing
with the mouse down event.
We're sending it to self.
The controller handles these events,
and the view likewise forwards
mouse down events to the controller.
Same thing for mouse up, mouse drag.
We don't actually use those,
but they're in there.
Key down.
So we check for input.
We check the time
interval for this frame,
and we advance our
animation by the time delta.
And then we render the scene.
And as I said, we flush buffer when
we're in full screen mode.
This is telling GL to do the page flip,
bring the back buffer forward,
and now we're going to start
over and draw the next frame
on the new back buffer.
And we're using an auto-release pool
here so that each time through the
loop any objects that are created,
since, again,
AppKit isn't driving things anymore.
We don't have it to clean
up auto-release things.
We have to clean up the
first objects for us,
so this is a common technique.
You create an auto-release pool,
and you release it at
the end of the loop,
and everything gets cleaned up for you.
Then there's a little trick
in here you'll see to sort
of clear the frame buffer,
clear a couple of pages before we
switch back out of full screen mode.
This avoids just kind of an
ugly flash of garbage when you
go out to back to full screen,
back to non-full screen.
We're setting the swap interval
back to be a good citizen.
We're clearing the current context,
clearing the drawable.
We're releasing all displays
and just telling our windowed
OpenGL view we need display,
and that's it.
So you see we have a key down
method in the controller that
actually handles the response for
any key that might be pressed.
Mouse down is implemented in main
controller to do the work that is done
when the mouse is clicked and then
dragged to rotate the globe and so on.
So if we look at, very quickly,
at the view object,
we've got very little left
in the view object here.
It creates the pixel format,
its own pixel format,
again with the no recovery attribute,
and it's in it with frame method.
But everything else -
DrawRec delegates out to the scene,
Reshape delegates out to the scene.
You get the idea by now that
we're just forwarding all those
input objects to the scene,
all those input events
to the controller object,
and all of the requests
to render to the scene.
So we've refactored our code, as it said,
to better facilitate going full screen.
So I know it's a lot of stuff.
The source code, I believe,
is online now if you log
into your ADC account.
And with that,
I'd like to go back to slides.
and puts you in the very
capable hands of Mr.
Doug Davidson,
owner of the incredibly powerful,
insanely great tech system in Cocoa,
who's going to show you
some very cool stuff.
So, thank you.
Hi, I'm Doug Davidson,
and I'm here to answer the next question.
So let's see, the question, please.
All right, the question is:
iChat puts these beautiful
bubbles around its text.
How could you do something like that?
Good question, folks.
Thanks.
Now, if you want to know more about
the theoretical underpinnings
for this sort of thing,
you can come to my talk
later on this afternoon,
5:00, on the Cocoa text system.
But this is Tips and Tricks,
so we're just going to
jump right in and do it.
And what we're going to do is
draw one of these bubbles around
each paragraph of the text.
So there are a few things
we have to keep in mind.
Now, the Cocoa text system automatically
makes sure that the text will
be redrawn whenever it changes.
But these bubbles are going to be
a little bit bigger than the text,
so we're going to need to make sure
ourselves that they get redrawn,
too.
Now, we're going to be drawing these
bubbles above the background and
below the glyphs in the text itself.
So the way we're going to do that is
- should be fairly obvious - we're
going to subclass NSTextView to
add some additional drawing to it.
And we're going to want to draw one
bubble around each paragraph of the text.
So the main thing we need to know
in order to do that is where the
paragraphs are located - location
and size for each paragraph.
And the general answer to any question
of that sort in the text system is:
ask the Layout Manager.
NSLayoutManager knows all.
So we're going to ask the
Layout Manager to find out the
information that will tell us
where the paragraphs are located,
so we can draw the bubbles around them.
So some APIs we're going to need.
All views have a method
setNeedsDisplayInRect,
but nstextview has an additional,
somewhat more specific method,
setNeedsDisplayInRectAvoidAdditionalLay
out.
So we need to know that because
we're going to be overriding that.
It gets called quite a bit from
the text system when text changes
and things need to be redisplayed.
And nstextview has another method,
new for Panther,
called drawViewBackgroundInRect.
And what this does,
this is the method that
nstextview uses to actually draw
the background for the view.
And so we're going to be overriding
that so we can do our drawing above
the background below the text.
And then we're going to need
some NSLayoutManager methods.
First of all,
generically in the Cocoa system,
you always need to use the layout
manager to convert between ranges of
characters in the text and ranges of
glyphs that are displayed on the screen.
So we'll need those methods.
And we'll need some more layout manager
methods to go from a rec that's being
drawn to the glyphs in that range.
and to determine where the lines
of text are in the text view.
And we also have a new method
in Panther on NSString called
paragraph range for range.
There's always been a
method line range for range,
but in Panther we distinguish between
line ranges and paragraph ranges.
And what we really want here is the
range of a paragraph in the text.
So we're going to use that method to
determine what the ranges of paragraphs
are in the characters of the text.
So let's take a look at some code.
If we can come over to demo one.
Here's our subclass of NSTextView.
And so the first method I want to point
out is our override of set needs display
and rect avoid additional layout.
And so, as I said,
we need to make sure that these bubbles,
which are a little bit bigger
than the paragraphs they enclose,
are going to get redrawn
when the paragraph changes.
And the quick and dirty way to do
that here is to simply expand the rect
that is being dirtied by the amount,
the width and height that the
bubble overlaps from the text.
We could probably be a little
bit more precise here if we
did a little bit more work,
but this works fine.
And then the next method I want to point
out is draw a view background in Rect,
which we are overriding in NSTextView.
So the first thing we do
is call the super method,
which actually draws the background,
because we want to draw the
background first before the bubbles.
And then we're going to figure out
where each paragraph is in the rack
that we're being asked to draw so
we can draw a bubble around it.
So, one thing we always have to do in
working with the Layout Manager,
the Layout Manager works in
text container coordinates,
not in view coordinates,
so we have to do a translation to
get into container coordinates.
Then we ask the Layout Manager to
determine what the range of glyphs is
that we need to deal with to cover the
rec that we're being asked to redraw.
And we'll convert that to
a character range so we can
examine the corresponding text.
This is the text that we need to
determine the ranges of paragraphs,
and we'll go through that
text paragraph by paragraph,
iterating through each.
And so we determine the range of a given
paragraph by using the NSString method
paragraph range for range.
So we'll loop through it
paragraph by paragraph,
and for each paragraph,
we'll have the range of
characters in that paragraph.
Then we're going to go back to
the Layout Manager to determine
where that paragraph is located.
So we'll get a glyph range
corresponding to that paragraph
range from the Layout Manager.
And then we're going to go to the
Layout Manager to determine where
the lines in that paragraph are in
the text container and the text view.
So this is a very common idiom when
dealing with the Layout Manager,
to iterate through by lines.
And we call the line fragment
used rect for glyph and index
method in the Layout Manager.
And what that does is it
returns what we're asking for,
which is the used rect
for a particular line.
And we want that because
that's part of the paragraph.
And it also returns by reference
the range of glyphs in that line.
So that will help us
iterate through by lines.
We're going to skip after we're
done with this to the beginning
of the next glyph after this line.
And then we take that used rect and
unit it in to the rect that we're
determining for the paragraph that
tells us where the paragraph lives.
But again,
all the coordinates that the Layout
Manager uses are container coordinates.
So, in order to get it back
to view coordinates,
we take our paragraph correct and
we undo that same translation.
And then we call a method that we
have that actually draws the bubble.
And actually drawing the
bubble is pretty simple.
I don't want to go into
it in too much detail,
but we have some nice images.
And we draw an image on one side,
an image on the other side,
and we fill the middle
with a pattern image.
So, now we put it all together.
Let's run it and see how it works.
There we go.
Thank you.
Now if we could go back to the slides.
I'd like to bring up
Chuck again to wrap things up.
Thank you, Doug.
All right.
Thanks, Doug.
So, I hope you guys have had
some fun with this session.
That was sort of the intent of it,
have some fun, show you guys how to
do some cool features.
And I think, you know,
I had a lot of fun.
In fact, the most fun of the afternoon
was seeing Troy sing up here.
I hope you all enjoyed
that as much as I did.
So let's do the wrap-up and, well,
there's not much left.
Okay, so you all know by now you're
getting DVDs and so on,
so take a look at those
when you get a chance.
What I want to point out is
a talk that's at 5 o'clock.
I hope some of you can
stick around for that.
You're going to see Doug talk even
more about the tech system and
find out how powerful it really is.
It's very, very cool stuff.
And the other thing I want to
point out is who to contact.
You probably all know this by now.
John Glunzey is your main contact.
We've all seen this before.
I'm just going to skip ahead.
I want to show you that
there's some more information.
What I want to point out
here is the demo code.
The demo code,
if it's not available right now,
should be up there very soon.
Each of the demos that you saw on
stage here will be available for you to
download and look at at your leisure.